---
autogenerated: true
title: 2015-07-27 - Janelia Hackathon
breadcrumb: 2015-07-27 - Janelia Hackathon
layout: page
categories: News,ImageJ2,SCIFIO,Hackathons
description: test description
---

From Sunday, July 27, 2015 through Friday, July 31, 2015, {% include person content='Saalfeld' %} at HHMI Janelia in Ashburn, Virginia hosted [LOCI](LOCI "wikilink")'s {% include person content='Rueden' %} and {% include person content='Hinerm' %} for a hackathon to unify [SCIFIO](SCIFIO "wikilink")/[ImgLib2](ImgLib2 "wikilink") development efforts (with MPI-CBG's {% include person content='Pietzsch' %}), improve support for the [Janelia KLB format](https://bitbucket.org/fernandoamat/keller-lab-block-filetype) (with Janelia's Burkhard Hoeckendorf), and improve the development tools available for [Fiji](Fiji "wikilink") developers.

## Executive summary

  - SCIFIO is headed in a great direction:
      - Will integrate it better into modern, powerful software tools including ImgLib2 and [BigDataViewer](BigDataViewer "wikilink").
      - Big step toward breaking the limitations of [ImageJ1](ImageJ1 "wikilink"), in particular the 2GPix plane barrier and limited image types.
      - Will make possible things like more transparent and rapid ability to work with multi-position and multi-angle datasets (mosaics, light sheet, etc.).
  - Stability of [ImageJ](ImageJ "wikilink") and Fiji—and other applications built on [SciJava](SciJava "wikilink") components—is now easier to validate.

## Technical discussions

  - Unify BigDataViewer and SCIFIO/SciJava cell caches, and caching in general
  - Unify SCIFIO and ImgLib2 metadata data structures
  - Improve Maven tooling for releases and testing.
  - KLB block-based file format:
      - Generalize SCIFIO's core API to use N-D blocks instead of planes.
      - Consider pure Java implementation of KLB to avoid native lib issues.
      - Enable multithreaded I/O in SCIFIO as painlessly as possible.

## Progress this week

  - Curtis wrote a "melting pot" script for testing component changes in the context of a larger application (e.g.: "Would this change to TrakEM2 break Fiji?") [https://github.com/scijava/scijava-scripts/commit/d611704204d607dc94654a6810d00a1ab0e9280e 1](https://github.com/scijava/scijava-scripts/commit/d611704204d607dc94654a6810d00a1ab0e9280e_1 "wikilink").
  - Curtis made some ImageJ improvements in response to feedback from Burkhard \[[2](https://github.com/imagej/imagej-plugins-commands/commit/6fafbc9c3444e3fe70420244699d02acfb72abfd), [3](https://github.com/imagej/imagej-plugins-commands/commit/ea9596b2d905eff9f7a9b2177dca5fe44b65ae6e)\].
  - Mark fixed bugs in SCIFIO cell caching in preparation for unification [https://github.com/imglib/imglib2-ij/pull/5 4](https://github.com/imglib/imglib2-ij/pull/5_4 "wikilink").
  - Mark and Curtis planned out the new SCIFIO API for "blockization".
  - Mark began work on ImageJ data model changes for SCIFIO "blockization" \[[5](https://github.com/imagej/imagej-common/compare/calibrated-interval), [6](https://github.com/scifio/scifio/compare/blocks-are-so-plane)\].

## Future directions

  - Jenkins automation of melting-pot for Fiji testing.
  - Wiki documentation on how to use the melting-pot for testing your components.
  - Completion of development on the SCIFIO "blockization" and unification of ImgLib2 data structures and caching.
  - Convert KLB native code to a pure Java SCIFIO format implementation.

[Category:News](Category_News "wikilink") [Category:ImageJ2](Category_ImageJ2 "wikilink") [Category:SCIFIO](Category_SCIFIO "wikilink") [Category:Hackathons](Category_Hackathons "wikilink")
