---
autogenerated: true
title: 2016-01-05 - ImageScience is moving to an update site
breadcrumb: 2016-01-05 - ImageScience is moving to an update site
layout: page
author: test author
categories: News,Fiji,ImageScience
description: test description
---

Resulting from [a discussion](https://github.com/imagescience/ImageScience/pull/1) with {% include person content='ImageScience' %}, the [ImageScience](ImageScience "wikilink") plugins have moved to their own dedicated [update site](update_site "wikilink"), and will no longer be distributed as part of core [Fiji](Fiji "wikilink").

## What moved?

The ImageScience plugins include:

  - [FeatureJ](FeatureJ "wikilink")
  - [MTrackJ](MTrackJ "wikilink")
  - [RandomJ](RandomJ "wikilink")
  - [TransformJ](TransformJ "wikilink")

There is also a fifth plugin, [NeuronJ](NeuronJ "wikilink"), which is now part of the ImageScience update site, not part of Fiji previously.

## Why?

The main reasons for the switch are:

  - To give Erik more control over the [development lifecycle](development_lifecycle "wikilink") ([versioning](versioning "wikilink"), [releases](releases "wikilink"), etc.).
  - To avoid a licensing conflict between Fiji's [GPL](GPL "wikilink") license and [ImageScience's proprietary one](http://www.imagescience.org/meijering/software/imagescience/).

## How does this affect users?

If you are using these plugins in your own workflows ([scripts](scripts "wikilink"), [macros](macros "wikilink"), [plugins](plugins "wikilink"), etc.), then you will need to [enable the ImageScience update site](How_to_follow_a_3rd_party_update_site "wikilink") for those workflows to remain functional.

We will leave the current versions of the ImageScience plugins on the Fiji update site for a few more weeks, to give people time to transition to the update site. We anticipate a "spring cleaning" announcement in a couple of months, announcing the removal of several plugins, including the ImageScience ones.

As always, thanks for your support, and [let us know](Contact "wikilink") if you have any questions or concerns with this change.

[Category:News](Category_News "wikilink") [Category:Fiji](Category_Fiji "wikilink") [Category:ImageScience](Category_ImageScience "wikilink")
