---
autogenerated: true
title: Colocalization Threshold
breadcrumb: Colocalization Threshold
layout: page
categories: Plugins,Colocalization,Color processing
description: test description
---


{% capture maintainer%}
{% include person content='White' %}
{% endcapture %}

{% capture source%}
{% include github org='fiji ' repo='Colocalisation\_Analysis ' source='Colocalisation\_Threshold.java ' %}, modified from [MBF ImageJ](MBF_ImageJ "wikilink")
{% endcapture %}
{% include info-box name='Colocalization Threshold ' software='ImageJ - Fiji ' author='Tony Collins (and others?) ' maintainer=maintainer filename='Colocalization.jar ' source=source latest-version='june 2009 ' website='[Colocalization Analysis\#Colocalization\_Threshold](Colocalization_Analysis#Colocalization_Threshold "wikilink") ' status='no longer actively supported, unlikely to be stable enough for real use. Use [Coloc\_2](Coloc_2 "wikilink") ' %}

## Purpose

Sets the thresholds for colocalization analysis, and also calculates Manders coefficients, 2D histogram / scatter plot, and other stats.

## Documentation

<span style="color:red">Note: this plugin is now deprecated. You should use the newer [Coloc 2](Coloc_2 "wikilink") plugin instead.</span>

See the great documentation for this plugin at [Colocalization Analysis\#Colocalization\_Threshold](Colocalization_Analysis#Colocalization_Threshold "wikilink"). The method is that implemented in Costes et al. This uses a Pearson's correlation above and below the thresholds to iteratively find where the correlation between the two images is 0 and sets the thresholds there. It is pretty robust and importantly is reproducible and non subjective.

Use of this plugin should be followed by use of the [Colocalization Test](Colocalization_Test "wikilink") plugin, to see of the results are statistically significant and better then random overlap of the signal in the images.

See also the [Colocalization Analysis](Colocalization_Analysis "wikilink") tutorial.

[Category:Plugins](Category_Plugins "wikilink") [Category:Colocalization](Category_Colocalization "wikilink") [Category:Color processing](Category_Color_processing "wikilink")
