---
autogenerated: true
title: Developing Fiji
breadcrumb: Developing Fiji
layout: page
categories: Development,Fiji
description: test description
---

{% include fijimenu%}
{% include outdated%}


Fiji is a community effort. So we are happy whenever we see new people developing Fiji\!

## Purpose

The purpose of this tutorial is to get you started hacking on [Fiji's source code](https://github.com/fiji/) (i.e., the core Fiji plugins). If you need to develop a *new plugin* for ImageJ, you do not actually need Fiji's source. Rather, see these resources:

  - {% include github org='imagej ' repo='example-legacy-plugin ' label='example-legacy-plugin ' %} project template
  - [Introduction into Developing Plugins](Introduction_into_Developing_Plugins "wikilink") tutorial
  - [Developing ImageJ 1.x plugins with NetBeans](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ac-6gJ2eRb0) screencast

See also [Developing Fiji in Eclipse](Developing_Fiji_in_Eclipse "wikilink") for a tutorial specific to the Eclipse IDE.

## Getting started

First, you have to [download and build Fiji](Downloading_and_Building_Fiji_From_Source "wikilink"). If you do not know Git yet, we have a [concise introduction](Git_for_dummies "wikilink") for you.

## Building Fiji

Fiji is organized into a set of [Maven](Maven "wikilink") projects. For convenience and speed, there is [SciJava](SciJava "wikilink")'s minimal Maven-lookalike [MiniMaven](MiniMaven "wikilink") to build Fiji, but it is recommended to use an [Integrated Development Environment](IDEs "wikilink"), or at least real Maven.

For details, please see [Downloading and Building Fiji From Source](Downloading_and_Building_Fiji_From_Source "wikilink"). See also the [Supported Compilers](Supported_Compilers "wikilink") page for more information.

## Testing

It is strongly recommended to write regression tests (also known as *unit tests*). It is [easy](Fiji_contribution_requirements#Regression_tests "wikilink").

Furthermore, it is highly recommended to write and run unit tests in an [Integrated Development Environment](IDEs "wikilink") for efficient debugging.

You may also want to measure the code coverage of your tests - one way is described in the page [Code Coverage in Fiji](Code_Coverage_in_Fiji "wikilink").

At some point, you might want to debug whatever you wrote. There's a small [Debugging intro](Debugging_intro "wikilink") page.

## Discussing code

When you want to propose and/or discuss changes to some source code, the preferred way is to [submit a PR on GitHub](contributing "wikilink").

## Contributing

Please have a look at the excellent *[How to contribute to an existing plugin or library](How_to_contribute_to_an_existing_plugin_or_library "wikilink")* tutorial.

## Providing documentation

A plugin wants to be used. Therefore you want to give users some information about it, and most likely also a tutorial how to use it.

If you have an account on this Wiki, you can easily create new tutorials with the [Tutorial Maker](Tutorial_Maker "wikilink").

## Further reading for developers

  - [Overview of Fiji's source code](Overview_of_Fijis_source_code "wikilink")
  - [Description of ImageJ's plugin architecture](Description_of_ImageJs_plugin_architecture "wikilink")
  - [Tips for developers](Tips_for_developers "wikilink")
  - [ImageJ1 Javadoc ZIP](http://jenkins.imagej.net/job/ImageJ1-javadoc/lastStableBuild/artifact/target/site/apidocs/) (for offline usage)
  - [ImageJ2 Javadoc ZIP](http://jenkins.imagej.net/job/ImageJ-daily/lastStableBuild/artifact/target/site/apidocs/) (for offline usage)
  - [Developers HowTo](Developers_HowTo "wikilink")
  - [ImageJ plugin writing tutorial](http://www.imagingbook.com/index.php?id=102)
  - [ImageJ programming tutorials](http://albert.rierol.net/imagej_programming_tutorials.html)
  - [Uploading plugins](Uploading_plugins "wikilink")
  - [Developing Fiji in Eclipse](Developing_Fiji_in_Eclipse "wikilink")
  - [Git](Git "wikilink")
  - [Project ideas](Project_ideas "wikilink")
  - [Code Coverage in Fiji](Code_Coverage_in_Fiji "wikilink")
  - [Introduction to debugging](Debugging_intro "wikilink")
  - [Profiling Java Code](Profiling_Java_Code "wikilink")
  - [Tips for C++ developers](Tips_for_C++_developers "wikilink")

[Category:Development](Category_Development "wikilink") [Category:Fiji](Category_Fiji "wikilink")
