---
autogenerated: true
title: Metadata
---

# What is metadata?

When acquiring images in microscopy, the image files that are stored contain two main things:

1.  *image data*: which is essentially 'pixel values'
2.  *metadata*: information on the image data including pixel size, bit depth, dimension and objective information, etc.

Metadata is essential to correctly read image data; for example, to have accurate measurements, the image needs to be calibrated according to the correct/associated pixel size. Saving and preserving metadata is key in quantitative image analysis.

# How do I open/read my metadata?

To start, try a high level API approach via a GUI...

### Using a GUI

If importing your images via [Bio-Formats Importer](/formats/bio-formats#bio-formats-importer) (which we suggest you do), you can either:

-   In **Stack Viewing**, View stack with: "Metadata only"

OR

-   In **Metadata viewing**: check "Display Metadata" or "Display OME-XML metadata"

[OMEVisual](/plugins/omevisual) is another tool that can visualize OME metadata; it is a [Fiji](/fiji) plugin.

These tools allow you to quickly check if your metadata 'looks' correct... are there the correct number of image blocks (i.e. one per tile if multi-scan image)? Are the dimensions correct? etc.

# What if I cannot read my metadata via a GUI?!

Did you observe a problem with your metadata via a GUI? Was there no data at all? Or was metadata missing? If this is the case, then perhaps there are structural issues with your metadata that require a bit more in-depth inspection via command line tools.

### Using the Command Line

Bio-Formats has a whole host of information regarding extracting, processing, and validating OME-XML. So check out [their resources](https://docs.openmicroscopy.org/ome-model/5.6.3/ome-tiff/tools.html) for more detailed information.

In brief, there are [command line tools available via Bio-Formats](https://docs.openmicroscopy.org/bio-formats/6.2.0/users/comlinetools/) to properly inspect and validate the XML in an OME-TIFF file.

Both the `tiffcomment` and `xmlvalid` commands are used; `tiffcomment` extracts the XML from the file and `xmlvalid` validates the XML and prints any errors to the console. See [this page](https://docs.openmicroscopy.org/bio-formats/6.2.0/users/comlinetools/xml-validation.html) for more details.
