---
autogenerated: true
title: Scripting
breadcrumb: Scripting
layout: page
categories: Scripting
description: test description
---

{% include learn content='scripting' %}ImageJ allows you to write scripts in several different languages.

# Getting started

  - Read the [ImageJ tutorial notebooks](https://imagej.github.io/tutorials) to learn how to write ImageJ scripts.
  - Press the {% include key content='\[' %} key to open the [Script Editor](Script_Editor ) (or {% include key content='Shift' %}-{% include key content='\[' %} to open the [Script Interpreter](Script_Interpreter )).
  - Optionally, choose a template from the *Templates* menu to get you started.
  - Otherwise, choose your language from the *Language* menu.
  - Grab code snippets for common tasks from the [Scripting toolbox](Scripting_toolbox ).
  - See [Scripting comparisons](Scripting_comparisons ) for a side-by-side comparison of scripting languages.
  - See [:Category:Scripting](Category_Scripting ) for a list of all scripting-related pages on this wiki.

# Supported languages

ImageJ's [Script Editor](Script_Editor ) supports many different languages. The following table summarizes the possibilities.

|                                                                |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Recommended options                                            |
| [Groovy](Groovy_Scripting )                          |
| [ImageJ Macro](Introduction_into_Macro_Programming ) |
| [Python (Jython)](Jython_Scripting )                 |
| [JavaScript](Javascript_Scripting )                  |
| [Ruby (JRuby)](JRuby_Scripting )                     |
| [Lisp (Clojure)](Clojure_Scripting )                 |
| [R (Renjin)](Renjin_Scripting )                      |
| Other options                                                  |
| [Java](Java )                                        |
| [MATLAB](MATLAB_Scripting )                          |
| [BeanShell](Beanshell_Scripting )                    |
| [Scala](Scala_Scripting )                            |

# Script parameters

There is a universal `@parameter` notation available across all scripts for declaring inputs and outputs. This approach is preferred to using ImageJ 1.x `GenericDialog` because it is totally agnostic to the user interface, allowing such scripts to run in a variety of contexts.

See the [script parameters](script_parameters ) page for details.

# Using an interpreter

All scripting languages use the same basic interpreter, with the following common features.

## General key bindings

  - {% include key content='up' %}: bring the previously typed command.
  - {% include key content='down' %}: bring the next typed command.
  - {% include key content='enter' %} or {% include key content='return' %}: execute the contents of the prompt.

## Multiline editing and keybindings

You can enlarge the prompt by dragging the middle bar.

  - {% include key content='Shift||Enter' %}: create a new line within the prompt.
  - {% include key content='Shift||Up' %}: move to the line above within the prompt.
  - {% include key content='Shift|Down' %}: move to the line below within the prompt.

## Selecting and executing text from the screen

On selecting text, a popup offers to:

  - copy
  - execute
  - save to a new file

# Using the script editor

You can create, edit and run scripts using the built-in [Script Editor](Script_Editor ). For details, please see [the Script Editor documentation](Using_the_Script_Editor ).

# Adding scripts to the Plugins menu

For the script to appear in the ImageJ menus, the following must apply:

{% include box text='".txt" is not a supported script extension ' width='30% ' float='right ' %}

1.  The script file is saved in the `ImageJ.app/scripts` or the `ImageJ.app/plugins/Scripts` directory (or a subdirectory thereof).
2.  The script name ends in a supported script extension. For example
      - ".groovy" for groovy,
      - ".js" for javascript,
      - ".py" for jython,
      - ".rb" for jruby,
      - ".clj" for clojure,
      - ".bsh" for beanshell, and
      - ".ijm" for ImageJ 1.x macros.
3.  The script name contains a '\_' (underscore) character, e.g. "MyScript\_.ijm".

{% include fiji content='Replace `ImageJ.app` with `Fiji.app`' %}

The extension will be stripped and any underscores will be turned into spaces before the script is added to the menus.

Scripts in the top-level `ImageJ.app/plugins` directory will appear at the bottom of the *Plugins* menu. Scripts can be placed in other menus by nesting subdirectories, for example placing a script in the `ImageJ.app/scripts/File` directory will add it to the *File* menu.

If you aren't able to find your script, you can always run the [Command Finder](Using_the_Command_Launcher ) to verify its location (or absence).

Commands added to the menu in the described way can be called from other scripts. Use the [macro recorder](macro_recorder ) to get the required code for doing so.

## Adding JAR-packaged scripts to the menu

Scripts can be packaged in a JAR file for easier distribution to your colleagues and via \[Update Sites\]. For this purpose, [example-script-collection](https://github.com/imagej/example-script-collection) can be used as the template Maven project.

Inside the example-script-collection jar, the scripts are in `./resources/scripts.` and therefore get added to the menu when the JAR is on the classpath (i.e. in `./plugins/` or `./jars/`).

ImageJ2 (and therefore Fiji) looks for scripts in subfolders of `./scripts/` as it is already described in the previous section, and for jars in `./jars/`. ImageJ1 recognizes plugins and scripts in `./plugins/`

# Running scripts in headless mode

See the [Scripting Headless](Scripting_Headless ) page for instructions on executing scripts headlessly.


