---
autogenerated: true
title: SoC 2010 Template
breadcrumb: SoC 2010 Template
layout: page
categories: 
description: test description
---

Project Goals
-------------

What is the goal of your project?

*Think about what you are going to try to accomplish with your project.*

Why is the project interesting to you?

*We do not want you to work for us, but rather <u>with</u> us. So it is important that you work on a project because you find it interesting; this will also help you to keep on doing it even when you face obstacles.*

How would you measure its success or failure?

*Now put yourself in your potential mentor's shoes. If you were the mentor for this project, what would make you consider the project to be a success? What features must be there? What functionality must it have?*

Describe your project in more detail.

*The goal of a project is just its end result. A project has a path that leads us to that end result, and should have a few milestones along the way, to help us mark our progress and gain satisfaction from accomplishment. Write this out, in your own words. It will help you to better understand what you are proposing to spend 3 months working on.*

What are your future plans regarding image processing?

''The most successful Open Source projects were started because somebody had a real need, and tried to make a tool/library/plugin to address that need. Tell us what you want to achieve in the field of image processing, and how your project will help you in that respect.'

Interfaces
----------

What parts of Fiji will you need to modify or enhance?

*There is already a lot of code that makes up the Fiji project. It is very unlikely that your project will stand on its own and not make use of any existing code. Describe the existing libraries or components that your project will be able to reuse and benefit from.*

What other Open Source projects can you use?

*Many problems have been solved in Open Source libraries. It is very likely that there exist such libraries which can help you accomplish your goal. Name and describe them.*

About You
---------

Can you list some prior Open Source projects that you have worked on?

*These don't need to be related to Fiji. We'd love to know what your background is! What projects did you work on? Can you provide a link to your contributions? What language(s) and tools were used? How many people were involved? What were the primary means of communication within the project? If you have a CV or resume online, please feel free to include a link.*

Do you have any prior Fiji/ImageJ experience? Have you started to get involved?

*If you have previously submitted a bug report or a patch to our mailing list, or even just chatted up someone on \#fiji-devel, please include references when possible. Links to mailing list archives (Fiji, ImageJA or ImageJ) when available would be great.*
