---
autogenerated: true
title: TIFF
breadcrumb: TIFF
layout: page
categories: Import-Export
description: test description
---

{% include menu-formats%}
The {% include wikipedia title='TIFF' text='TIFF file format'%} is one of the most widely used formats in biosciences. Many commercial instruments write images using some flavor of TIFF. It is used in [open source](open_source ) efforts as well; for example, the [Open Microscopy Environment](OME ) developed the [OME-TIFF format](http://www.openmicroscopy.org/site/support/ome-model/ome-tiff/) as an open exchange standard for microscopy data.

ImageJ 1.x support
------------------

[ImageJ 1.x](ImageJ_1.x ) (and therefore [ImageJ2](ImageJ2 ) in its default legacy mode) has built-in support for TIFF files via the {% include bc content='File | Open...'%} command.

You can also import TIFFs as [virtual stacks](https://imagej.net/docs/guide/146-8.html#sub:Virtual-Stacks) via the {% include bc content='File | Import | TIFF Virtual Stack...'%} command.

-   **Pro:** The ImageJ 1.x TIFF reader is very fast.
-   **Con:** The ImageJ 1.x TIFF support is incomplete. Some valid baseline TIFF files will not open properly. In particular, TIFF files with out-of-order planes cannot be opened.

Bio-Formats
-----------

The [Bio-Formats](Bio-Formats ) plugins offer a more complete TIFF importer, accessible via the {% include bc content='File | Import | Bio-Formats'%} command.

-   **Pro:** The Bio-Formats TIFF reader can handle many more varieties of TIFF.
-   **Con:** The Bio-Formats TIFF support is not as speedy as ImageJ1's TIFF reader.

SCIFIO
------

The [SCIFIO](SCIFIO ) library, the I/O library of [ImageJ2](ImageJ2 ), imports TIFF files using code adapted from the [Bio-Formats](Bio-Formats ) project. As such, it is similar to Bio-Formats in that it supports a wider variety of TIFFs, but is less performant than the ImageJ 1.x reader. SCIFIO is accessible via the {% include bc content='File | Import | Image...'%} command.

You can tell ImageJ2 to use SCIFIO by default via the {% include bc content='Edit | Options | ImageJ2...'%} menu's "Use SCIFIO when opening files (BETA!)" checkbox.


