---
autogenerated: true
title: 3D Objects Counter
layout: page
categories: Plugins,Particle analysis
description: test description
---

{% include component-stats content='sc.fiji:3D\_Objects\_Counter' %}

What does it do ?
-----------------

This plugin:

-   **counts the number of 3D objects in a stack.**
-   **quantifies for each found object the following parameters:**
    -   Integrated density;
    -   Mean of the gray values;
    -   Standard deviation of the gray values;
    -   Minimum gray value;
    -   Maximum gray value;
    -   Median of the gray values;
    -   Mean distance from the geometrical centre of the object to surface;
    -   Standard deviation of the distance to surface;
    -   Median distance to surface;
    -   Centroid;
    -   Centre of mass;
    -   Bounding box.
-   **generates results representations such as:**
    -   Objects' map;
    -   Surface voxels' map;
    -   Centroids' map;
    -   Centres of masses' map.

As ImageJ's “Analyze Particles” function, 3D-OC also has a “redirect to” option, allowing one image to be taken as a mask to quantify intensity related parameters on a second image.

Plugin's manual
---------------

The plugin's manual might be downloaded from [ImageJ's wiki.](http://imagejdocu.tudor.lu/lib/exe/fetch.php?media=plugin:analysis:3d_object_counter:3d-oc.pdf)

Install/Update
--------------

v2.0 plugin is now contained in Fiji; just use {% include bc content='Help | [Update Fiji](/plugins/updater)'%} to get it.

Reference
---------

The original plugin was published here: [S. Bolte & F. P. Cordelières, A guided tour into subcellular colocalization analysis in light microscopy, Journal of Microscopy, Volume 224, Issue 3: 213-232](http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/118727584/PDFSTART)

License
-------

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/).

 
