---
autogenerated: true
title: Colocalization Threshold
layout: page
categories: Plugins,Colocalization,Color processing
description: test description
---


{% capture maintainer%}
{% include person content='White' %}
{% endcapture %}

{% capture source%}
{% include github org='fiji' repo='Colocalisation\_Analysis' source='Colocalisation\_Threshold.java' %}, modified from [MBF ImageJ](/software/mbf-imagej)
{% endcapture %}
{% include info-box name='Colocalization Threshold' software='ImageJ - Fiji' author='Tony Collins (and others?)' maintainer=maintainer filename='Colocalization.jar' source=source latest-version='june 2009' website='[Colocalization Analysis\#Colocalization\_Threshold](Colocalization_Analysis#Colocalization_Threshold)' status='no longer actively supported, unlikely to be stable enough for real use. Use [Coloc\_2](/plugins/coloc-2)' %}

Purpose
-------

Sets the thresholds for colocalization analysis, and also calculates Manders coefficients, 2D histogram / scatter plot, and other stats.

Documentation
-------------

<span style="color:red">Note: this plugin is now deprecated. You should use the newer [Coloc 2](/plugins/coloc-2) plugin instead.</span>

See the great documentation for this plugin at [Colocalization Analysis\#Colocalization\_Threshold](Colocalization_Analysis#Colocalization_Threshold). The method is that implemented in Costes et al. This uses a Pearson's correlation above and below the thresholds to iteratively find where the correlation between the two images is 0 and sets the thresholds there. It is pretty robust and importantly is reproducible and non subjective.

Use of this plugin should be followed by use of the [Colocalization Test](/plugins/colocalization-test) plugin, to see of the results are statistically significant and better then random overlap of the signal in the images.

See also the [Colocalization Analysis](/techniques/colocalization-analysis) tutorial.

  
