---
autogenerated: true
title: MOSAICsuite
categories: [Plugins,Particle analysis,Filtering,Colocalization,Deconvolution,Segmentation]
---


{% capture maintainer%}
{% include person id='krzysg' %}
{% endcapture %}
{% include info-box software='ImageJ' name='MosaicSuite' author='[MOSAIC Group](http://mosaic.mpi-cbg.de/) , [Center for Systems Biology Dresden (CSBD)](http://www.mpg-sysbio.de) , [Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics (MPI-CBG)](http://www.mpi-cbg.de/research/research-groups/ivo-sbalzarini.html) , Dresden, Germany.' maintainer=maintainer update-site='MOSAIC ToolSuite' source='[MPI-CBG git](https://git.mpi-cbg.de/mosaic/MosaicSuite)' released='2006' status='active' category='[Particle analysis](Category_Particle_analysis), [Filtering](Category_Filtering), [Colocalization](Category_Colocalization), [Deconvolution](Category_Deconvolution), [Segmentation](Category_Segmentation)' website='[MosaicSuite](http://mosaic.mpi-cbg.de/?q=downloads/imageJ)' %}

The **MosaicSuite** is a fully integrated suite of various plugins from the [MOSAIC Group](http://mosaic.mpi-cbg.de). It contains tools for 2D and 3D feature point-tracking, 2D and 3D image segmentation, colocalization analysis, interaction analysis, background subtraction, Point-Spread Function (PSF) estimation from images, and simulation of the image-formation process in fluorescence microscopes. The best way to install it is via the MOSAIC Fiji Update site, as described on the [MOSAIC web page](http://mosaic.mpi-cbg.de/?q=downloads/imageJ). The MOSAICsuite interconnects all the different methods from the MOSAIC Group to a coherent workflow package and also contains wizards to assist parameter tuning, as well as support for parallel processing on computer clusters.

## References

I. F. Sbalzarini and P. Koumoutsakos. Feature Point Tracking and Trajectory Analysis for Video Imaging in Cell Biology, Journal of Structural Biology 151(2):182-195, 2005.

J. A. Helmuth, C. J. Burckhardt, U. F. Greber, and I. F. Sbalzarini. Shape reconstruction of subcellular structures from live cell fluorescence microscopy images. Journal of Structural Biology, 167:1–10, 2009.

J. A. Helmuth, G. Paul, and I. F. Sbalzarini. Beyond co-localization: inferring spatial interactions between sub-cellular structures from microscopy images. BMC Bioinformatics, 11:372, 2010.

J. Cardinale, G. Paul, and I. F. Sbalzarini. Discrete region competition for unknown numbers of connected regions. IEEE Trans. Image Process., 21(8):3531–3545, 2012.

A. Shivanandan, A. Radenovic, and I. F. Sbalzarini. MosaicIA: an ImageJ/Fiji plugin for spatial pattern and interaction analysis. BMC Bioinformatics, 14:349, 2013.

G. Paul, J. Cardinale, and I. F. Sbalzarini. Coupling image restoration and segmentation: A generalized linear model/Bregman perspective. Int. J. Comput. Vis., 104(1):69–93, 2013.

A. Rizk, G. Paul, P. Incardona, M. Bugarski, M. Mansouri, A. Niemann, U. Ziegler, P. Berger, and I. F. Sbalzarini. Segmentation and quantification of subcellular structures in fluorescence microscopy images using Squassh. Nature Protocols, 9(3):586–596, 2014.

N. Chenouard, I. Smal, F. de Chaumont, M. Maska, I. F. Sbalzarini, Y. Gong, J. Cardinale, C. Carthel, S. Coraluppi, M. Winter, A. R. Cohen, W. J. Godinez, K. Rohr, Y. Kalaidzidis, L. Liang, J. Duncan, H. Shen, Y. Xu, K. E. G. Magnusson, J. Jalden, H. M. Blau, P. Paul-Gilloteaux, P. Roudot, C. Kervrann, F. Waharte, J.-Y. Tinevez, S. L. Shorte, J. Willemse, K. Celler, G. P. van Wezel, H.-W. Dan, Y.-S. Tsai, C. O. de Solorzano, J.-C. Olivo-Marin, and E. Meijering. Objective comparison of particle tracking methods. Nature Methods, 11(3):281–289, 2014.

