---
autogenerated: true
title: 2011-05-01 - ImageJ v2.0.0-alpha2
breadcrumb: 2011-05-01 - ImageJ v2.0.0-alpha2
layout: page
author: test author
categories: News,ImageJ2
description: test description
---

Today we are releasing the second alpha of ImageJ2, version
2.0.0-alpha2. This is an "alpha"-quality release, meaning the code is
not finished, nor is the design fully stabilized. We are releasing it
for early community feedback, and to demonstrate project directions and
progress.

DO NOT USE THIS RELEASE FOR ANYTHING IMPORTANT.

For this release, like
[2.0.0-alpha1](2011-04-01_-_ImageJ_v2.0.0-alpha1 "wikilink"), we have
tried to model the application after ImageJ v1.x as much as is
reasonable. However, please be aware that version 2.0.0 is essentially a
total rewrite of ImageJ from the ground up. It provides backward
compatibility with older versions of ImageJ by bundling the latest v1.x
code and translating between "legacy" and "modern" image structures.

The most significant advancement for 2.0.0-alpha2 is its use of the
[ImgLib2](ImgLib2 "wikilink") image processing library, developed at
[MPI-CBG](http://www.mpi-cbg.de/) by {% include Person
content="Saalfeld" %}, {% include Person content="StephanP" %}, {%
include Person content="Pietzsch" %} and others. Development of ImgLib2
received a major boost at the recent [Madison Fiji
hackathon](2011_Hackathon_in_Madison "wikilink"), and the library is now
at a point where it is usable within ImageJ2. Use of ImgLib2 has enabled
ImageJ2 to display composite color images with individual color lookup
tables, similar to ImageJ1's CompositeImage but without the
seven-channel limit.

For further details on the release, see the README.txt file included
with the distribution.

[Category:News](Category:News "wikilink")
[Category:ImageJ2](Category:ImageJ2 "wikilink")
