---
autogenerated: true
title: 2012-02-01 - The Fiji Updater has been integrated into the ImageJ2 code base
breadcrumb: 2012-02-01 - The Fiji Updater has been integrated into the ImageJ2 code base
layout: page
author: test author
categories: News,ImageJ2
description: test description
---

A first working version of the [Updater](Updater "wikilink") was
integrated into the [ImageJ2](ImageJ2 "wikilink") code base. This is an
important step: the Updater can connect not only to the primary ImageJ2
update site, but to any number of update sites a user might configure.
Likewise, advanced users may wish to set up their own update sites,
which only requires a web site with either direct file access, or
SSH/SFTP access (SFTP support was contributed by Jarek Sacha).

The Updater is a heavily adapted [Fiji](Fiji "wikilink") Updater and
works in conjunction with the ImageJ [Launcher](Launcher "wikilink")
which we still have to integrate into the ImageJ2 code base from {%
include github content='TODO' %} .

The reason the Launcher is required is because no Java Runtime
Environment handles overwrites of .jar files gracefully when classes
from the .jar files are still in use. (Probably this is a tribute to
Windows, older version of which had a very small number of file handles
available.) As an example: the ImageJ1 updater—which overwrites ij.jar
"in flight"—consistently crashes ImageJ1 in this developer's setup. The
Updater/Launcher combo works around this as following: the Updater
stores the files-to-be-updated in \<IJDIR\>/update/ and the Launcher
picks them up and overwrites the respective files before Java is
actually started.

As a consequence of integrating the Updater, proper regression tests
have been written to guarantee that the functionality of the Updater is
not broken by future changes. Our trusty [Jenkins](Jenkins "wikilink")
will make sure that these regression tests run very soon after new
changes were published in the source code repository, so that
regressions will be caught pretty quickly—way before any user might
experience the issues. Indeed, a number of issues which would have come
up in conjunction with multiple update sites have been fixed due to the
improved regression tests.

A few minor things need to be done still: regression tests need to be
added for cross-update-site issues and native dependencies, and we need
to come up with a proper upgrade path from the Fiji Updater so that our
long-term plan comes true to make Fiji a first-class update site of
ImageJ2 and to move all Fiji components which are not directly related
to life sciences into ImageJ2.

In related news, the Updater was enhanced such that it could—in
theory—handle an update site for projects which are only loosely
related to Fiji/ImageJ2, such as [OMERO](OMERO "wikilink").

[Category:News](Category:News "wikilink")
[Category:ImageJ2](Category:ImageJ2 "wikilink")
