---
autogenerated: true
title: 2016-12-20 - Fiji + KNIP hackathon
breadcrumb: 2016-12-20 - Fiji + KNIP hackathon
layout: page
author: test author
categories: News,Fiji
description: test description
---

From Tuesday, December 6, 2016 through Friday, December 16, 2016, the
[Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and
Genetics](https://mpi-cbg.de/) hosted \~20 developers at their facility
in Dresden, Germany for a [hackathon](hackathon "wikilink") to develop
[ImageJ2](ImageJ2 "wikilink") and [Fiji](Fiji "wikilink") core
infrastructure and [plugins](plugins "wikilink").

## Timeline

The following chart illustrates when everyone was present:

<timeline> Preset = TimeHorizontal\_AutoPlaceBars\_UnitYear

ImageSize = width:600

Colors =

` id:c01 value:blue`  
` id:c02 value:red`  
` id:c03 value:green`  
` id:c04 value:black`  
` id:c05 value:magenta`  
` id:c06 value:teal`  
` id:c07 value:yelloworange`  
` id:c08 value:skyblue`  
` id:c09 value:claret`  
` id:c10 value:oceanblue`  
` id:c11 value:purple`  
` id:c12 value:powderblue`  
` id:c13 value:coral`  
` id:c14 value:redorange`  
` id:c15 value:kelleygreen`  
` id:c16 value:orange`  
` id:c17 value:lightpurple`  
` id:c18 value:tan2`  
` id:c19 value:gray(0.3)`  
` id:c20 value:blue`  
` id:c21 value:red`  
` id:c22 value:green`  
` id:c23 value:black`  
` id:c24 value:magenta`  
` id:c25 value:teal`  
` id:gridLine value:gray(0.5)`  
` id:gridCanvas value:gray(0.8)`

BackgroundColors = canvas:gridCanvas

Period = from:6 till:17

ScaleMajor = unit:year increment:1 start:6 grid:white

LineData =

` at:6 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:7 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:8 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:9 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:10 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:11 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:12 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:13 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:14 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:15 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:16 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`  
` at:17 color:gridLine layer:back width:0.5`

BarData=

` barset:Hackers`

PlotData=

` width:15 `  
` fontsize:M`  
` textcolor:white`  
` align:left `  
` anchor:from `  
` shift:(4,-4) `  
` color:black`

` barSet:Hackers`  
` color:c01 from:12 till:17 text:"Curtis Rueden (LOCI)"`  
` color:c02 from:11 till:17 text:"Christian Dietz (KNIME/UniKN)"`  
` color:c03 from:11 till:16 text:"Patrick Winter (KNIME/UniKN)"`  
` color:c04 from:9 till:17 text:"Marcel Wiedenmann (KNIME/UniKN)"`  
` color:c05 from:9 till:16 text:"Tim-Oliver Buchholz (KNIME/UniKN)"`  
` color:c06 from:6 till:16 text:"Matthias Arzt (MPI-CBG)"`  
` color:c07 from:6 till:16 text:"Richard Domander (BoneJ/RVC)"`  
` color:c08 from:6 till:16 text:"Ulrik Günther (MPI-CBG)"`  
` color:c09 from:6 till:16 text:"Robert Haase (MPI-CBG)"`  
` color:c10 from:6 till:16 text:"Philipp Hanslovsky (Janelia)"`  
` color:c11 from:6 till:16 text:"Kyle Harrington (Uni-Idaho)"`  
` color:c12 from:6 till:16 text:"Florian Jug (MPI-CBG)"`  
` color:c13 from:6 till:16 text:"Klim Kolyvanov (MDC/BIMSB)"`  
` color:c14 from:6 till:16 text:"HongKee Moon (MPI-CBG)"`  
` color:c15 from:6 till:16 text:"Tobias Pietzsch (MPI-CBG)"`  
` color:c16 from:6 till:16 text:"Loic Royer (MPI-CBG)"`  
` color:c17 from:6 till:16 text:"Stephan Saalfeld (Janelia)"`  
` color:c18 from:6 till:16 text:"Pavel Tomancak (MPI-CBG)"`  
` color:c19 from:6 till:16 text:"Vladimir Ulman (MPI-CBG)"`  
` color:c20 from:6 till:13 text:"Jean-Yves Tinevez (Pasteur)"`  
` color:c21 from:6 till:10 text:"David Hörl (LMU, MDC)"`  
` color:c22 from:6 till:9 text:"Carsten Haubold (HCI)"`  
` color:c23 from:6 till:9 text:"Jonas Massa (HCI)"`

</timeline>

## Gallery

[File:hackdd16-beautiful-dresden.jpg|caption|Beautiful](File:hackdd16-beautiful-dresden.jpg%7Ccaption%7CBeautiful)
Dresden
[File:hackdd16-beer-and-code.jpg|caption|Beer](File:hackdd16-beer-and-code.jpg%7Ccaption%7CBeer)
and code
[File:hackdd16-better-software.jpg|caption|Better](File:hackdd16-better-software.jpg%7Ccaption%7CBetter)
software, better research\!
[File:hackdd16-day1.jpg|caption|First](File:hackdd16-day1.jpg%7Ccaption%7CFirst)
day
[File:hackdd16-hackers.jpg|caption|Hackers](File:hackdd16-hackers.jpg%7Ccaption%7CHackers)
at work
[File:hackdd16-hacking.jpg|caption|Hacking](File:hackdd16-hacking.jpg%7Ccaption%7CHacking)
[File:hackdd16-mpicbg-xmas-party.jpg|caption|MPI-CBG](File:hackdd16-mpicbg-xmas-party.jpg%7Ccaption%7CMPI-CBG)
Christmas party
[File:hackdd16-waldschlosschen.jpg|caption|Waldschloßchen](File:hackdd16-waldschlosschen.jpg%7Ccaption%7CWaldschloßchen)
[File:hackdd16-xmas.jpg|caption|Merry](File:hackdd16-xmas.jpg%7Ccaption%7CMerry)
Christmas\!

## Hackathon progress

### Tim-Oliver Buchholz

  - Participated in technical discussions about ThreeDViewer,
    BigDataViewer and the next generation of viewers used in [KNIME
    Image Processing](KNIME_Image_Processing "wikilink").
  - Participated in discussions about [ImageJ
    Ops](ImageJ_Ops "wikilink") based feature extraction.
  - Worked on the integration of the BigDataViewer as new standard
    viewer in [KNIME Image
    Processing](KNIME_Image_Processing "wikilink").

### Ulrik Günther

  - continued work on the [Scenery](Scenery "wikilink") 3D rendering
    backend for [ThreeDViewer](ThreeDViewer "wikilink") and
    [ClearVolume](ClearVolume "wikilink") 2.0:
      - introduced the library and its features to the community
      - fixed native code dependencies, included CI builds
      - worked on the Vulkan ([1](https://www.khronos.org/vulkan))
        backend for higher rendering performance, which finally got
        merged (see )
      - helped various people getting scenery running on their machine
  - fixed some bugs in [ClearVolume](ClearVolume "wikilink"), together
    with 
  - discussed future directions for
    [ThreeDViewer](ThreeDViewer "wikilink")/[ClearVolume](ClearVolume "wikilink")/[BigDataViewer](BigDataViewer "wikilink")
    with , ,  and 

### Robert Haase

  - Participated in discussions about [Fiji](Fiji "wikilink") release
    cycle and [ImageJ Ops](ImageJ_Ops "wikilink") based feature
    extraction
  - Bugfixed a tool for visualising Meshes in the good old [3D
    Viewer](3D_Viewer "wikilink") which were derived from
    ArrayList\<RandomAccessibleInterval<BoolType>\>s as an intermediate
    solution until the [ThreeDViewer](ThreeDViewer "wikilink") is ready.
  - Built an ImageJ-Ops based particle analyser, which will in the
    future allow processing 3D images in a way like 2D images were
    processed using the good old [Particle
    Analysis](Particle_Analysis "wikilink") tool
  - With , , and  we launched the work on a `PlotService` for ImageJ2.

### Kyle Harrington

  - Participated in technical discussions, especially those focused on
    the next generation ThreeDViewer
  - Finished integrating imagej-ops usage into Funimage (see
    [Funimage\#26](https://github.com/funimage/funimage/pull/26))
  - Unifying Mesh data structure from ops with
    [imagej-mesh](https://github.com/imagej/imagej-mesh) file loading
    with 
  - More [ThreeDViewer](ThreeDViewer "wikilink") enhancements

### Florian Jug

  - With , overhauled the [SciJava Common](SciJava_Common "wikilink")
    [logging](logging "wikilink") mechanism ().
  - With ,,, and  split up the necessary work in order to cut stable
    releases of Fiji (biannually). This 'earned' me the status of 'Grand
    Poobah'. ;)
  - Worked on an 'indago' parent POM for DAIS related projects and
    started using it for the new tracker 'Tr2d'.
  - Worked on the new tracker 'Tr2d'. New features: improved leveraged
    editing; tracklet export; improved BDV overlays.
  - With  and  we have fixed some reported
    [ClearVolume](ClearVolume "wikilink") bugs and released a new
    version after testing on Win/Linux/MaxOS.
  - With , , and  we launched the work on a `PlotService` for ImageJ2.

### Curtis Rueden

  - With  and , completed update of ImageJ web resources to support
    HTTPS (see [separate news
    post](2016-12-29_-_ImageJ_web_resources_now_support_HTTPS "wikilink")).
  - With , overhauled the [SciJava Common](SciJava_Common "wikilink")
    [logging](logging "wikilink") mechanism ().
  - With , improved [SciJava Common](SciJava_Common "wikilink") context
    injection to be recursive, to fix bugs with service population of
    commands (, ).
  - With , add a validater callback for parameter validation (, ).
  - With , began work on a `PlotService` for ImageJ2
    (\[<https://github.com/imagej/imagej-ui-swing/compare/plot-service>...maarzt:plot-service
    maarzt/imagej-ui-swing@plot-service\]).
  - Participated in technical discussions with various people, including
    a "big-picture" status update for ImageJ2 covering my [primary
    priorities](User:Rueden#Primary_projects "wikilink"); see [Technical
    discussions](#Technical_discussions "wikilink") section below.

### Tobias Pietzsch

  - With , worked on Mastodon/TrackMate3, in particular the unified
    handling of adapter views onto the main tracking model.
  - With , worked towards integration of caching mechanisms into unified
    scijava/imglib2 cache; generalization of BigDataViewer cache.
  - Added support in
    [ui-behaviour](https://github.com/scijava/ui-behaviour) for
    triggering multiple behaviours in parallel.
  - Documented [ui-behaviour](https://github.com/scijava/ui-behaviour)
    configuration
    [syntax](https://github.com/scijava/ui-behaviour/wiki/InputTrigger-syntax)
  - Assisted with various BigDataViewer-related projects.

### Patrick Winter

  - Improvements to KNIME SLURM integration:
      - Many bugfixes (specifically for the use of image processing
        workflows)
      - Implemented status view for more detailed information about the
        state of running jobs
  - Got KNIME SLURM integration to run with the MPI-CBG Dresden cluster
  - Achieved significant speed ups by running parts of an image
    processing workflow on the cluster

### JeanYvesTinevez

  - With , worked on Mastodon/TrackMate3, in particular view colouring
    by numerical features calculated on a model.
  - With ,extended the [MaMuT](MaMuT "wikilink") so that it can be used
    for 2D over time properly.

### Christian Dietz

  - With Marcel Wiedenmann, worked on processing of very large images in
    ops
  - With Tim-Oliver Buchholz, worked on BDV integration in KNIP

### Klim Kolyvanov

  - Implemented the non-rigid [coherent point
    drift](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.250.5954&rep=rep1&type=pdf)
    algorithm using la4j.
  - Pushed forward the implementation of the [radial
    symmetry](https://github.com/milkyklim/RadialSymmetryLocalization)
    plugin for ImageJ.
  - Worked on tracking of C.elegans cells.

### Carsten Haubold

  - With , added a loader for 5D ilastik HDF5 volumes for BigDataViewer
  - Worked on a prototype for a tracking export plugin system within
    ilastik to talk to MaMuT

### Jonas Massa

  - implemented an ilastik HDF5 import/export plugin for Imagej ()

### HongKee Moon

  - Separated BigDataServer into two versions. One is
    SimpleBigDataServer which can be launched by adding xml datasets in
    the command line. The other is (Advanced) BigDataServer which is
    running with H2 DBMS backend.
  - ER design is completed with .

<!-- end list -->

  - (Advanced) BigDataServer
      - H2 DBMS integration is completed.
      - User/Dataset/Tag/Annotation entity relationships are decided and
        made in the hackathon.
      - DataSets are managed as either private or public according to
        users.
      - Manager context is still supported as well as user management is
        possible there.
      - Each user can share private datasets with other users.

<!-- end list -->

  - SimpleBigDataServer
      - This is almost same as the previous command line based
        BigDataServer.

<!-- end list -->

  - Technical notes
      - Upgraded the stringtemplate with v4(org.stringtemplate.v4.ST)
        which is getting powerful for templating strings for HTML
        tables.
      - By using AJAX, database CRUD operations are carried in a
        responsive way.
      - Realized how important JDBC database connection pool is.

## Technical discussions

### Programmers Anonymous

  - Robert is addicted to ImageJ.
  - Ulrik can only do snapshot releases.
  - Florian is doing too much at once... at least he has a car\! (Yes
    Klim, you can join...)

### Stable releases of Fiji

  - We agreed to cut a stable release of Fiji once every six months.
      - will manage the releases, both socially and technically.
    
      - will update the [Updater](Updater "wikilink") to more clearly
        communicate the ramifications of updating.
    
      - will create Jenkins jobs for automating cutting of stable
        release candidates and releases.
  - We agreed to continue pursuing the "melting pot" builds of Fiji
    and/or the SciJava universe, to better detect cross-component
    regressions and incompatibilities.
      - will research effective approaches for running the melting pot
        via CI.
    
      - Core maintainers (esp.  and ) will run the melting pot manually
        to vet its usefulness and correctness.

### 3D viewers in ImageJ and Fiji

  - We discussed how best to proceed with the
    [ThreeDViewer](ThreeDViewer "wikilink"),
    [BigDataViewer](BigDataViewer "wikilink") et. al.
      - All agree to be very grumpy if the discussion ever degrades back
        to a laundry list of desired features (before we actually finish
        the first iteration of the code)
    
      - will continue efforts to consolidate
        [ThreeDViewer](ThreeDViewer "wikilink") and
        [BigDataViewer](BigDataViewer "wikilink") into a unified viewer
    
      - and  will continue to develop UI components for BDV and KNIME
        using SciJava for use in the unified viewer
    
      - , , and  will reconvene in the Spring for component integration
    
      - will continue to work his BDV magic
  - Roughly the idea is (we previously discussed this at the 2016 summer
    Konsanz hackathon):
      - 4 viewer panels (number of panels is convenience not hard
        coded): X-Y, Y-Z, X-Z, and 3D. Viewer panels have sliders for
        time and other dimensions
    
      - Control panel with selection of attributes that can be synced
        between viewer panels, but can also be used for independent
        control of viewer panels
    
      - BDV provides orthogonal views
    
      - Viewer panels have overlays: minimaps, intensity, etc.
    
      - ROI overlays can also be provided
    
      - Panels are just JPanels
    
      - says most of the backend has already been developed in BDV
    
      - [ThreeDViewer](ThreeDViewer "wikilink") should reuse more of
        [BigDataViewer](BigDataViewer "wikilink")'s UI components
    
      - GUI tools/widgets will go into scijava-ui-swing
    
      - will continue to develop Scenery for the core 3D rendering
        functionality

[Category:News](Category:News "wikilink")
[Category:Fiji](Category:Fiji "wikilink")
