---
autogenerated: true
title: Adding new formats
breadcrumb: Adding new formats
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Development
description: test description
---

{% include develop-menu content='tutorials' %}Before an image can be analyzed, it needs to be opened properly. The way scientific image data can be stored varies wildly - with custom formats as numerous as the different brands and models of instruments used in their acquisition. Therefore, supporting a wide variety of formats is critical to the success of an image analysis platform like ImageJ.{% include imagej1 content='With [ImageJ 1.x](ImageJ_1.x "wikilink"), a special [HandleExtraFileTypes](https://imagej.net/plugins/file-handler.html) plugin exists that can be modified to support new data formats—but it has some significant disadvantages:

  - It only provides limited extensibility: there can only be one `HandleExtraFileTypes` installed into ImageJ at a time, so all desired modifications to the plugin must be somehow combined. This makes it impossible to, for example, ship a different `HandleExtraFileTypes` on two different ImageJ [Update Sites](Update_Sites "wikilink") and have both additions be available in the same installation.
  - Data formats added in this manner cannot override or extend ImageJ1"s built in support for certain file formats. In particular, ImageJ1 supports only a subset of the TIFF specification, and this issue cannot be circumvented via `HandleExtraFileTypes` modifications.' %}[ImageJ2](ImageJ2 "wikilink") provides a comprehensive solution to the issue of data formats in the form of [SCIFIO](SCIFIO "wikilink") data format plugins. [SCIFIO](SCIFIO "wikilink"), the SCientific Image Format Input and Output library, is a flexible framework for image format support. To get started writing SCIFIO formats:

<!-- end list -->

  - Check out the [SCIFIO tutorials](https://github.com/scifio/scifio-tutorials/tree/master/core/src/main/java/io/scif/tutorials/core).
  - Look at simple [existing formats](https://github.com/scifio/scifio/blob/scifio-0.24.0/src/main/java/io/scif/formats/BMPFormat.java) for a starting point.

## See also

  - [Bio-Formats](Bio-Formats "wikilink")

[Category:Development](Category_Development "wikilink")
