---
autogenerated: true
title: Biomat
breadcrumb: Biomat
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Plugins,Filtering
description: test description
---

{% capture source %} {% include github org="jiri-janacek" repo="biomat"
%} {% endcapture %} {% include sidebox-right software='ImageJ'
name='Biomat' maintainer='[Jiří
Janáček](mailto:jiri.janacek_at_fgu.cas.cz)' author='Jiří Janáček'
source=source released='03/26/2019' version='03/26/2019' status=''
website='' %}

## Plugins for 3D image preprocessing.

**Stack Linear Contrast** - multiplies images in stack by coefficient
obtained by linear interpolation of the "first" and "last" coefficient.
A simple tool for compensation of contrast decreasing with depth within
thick sample.

**Lipschitz 3D** Filter - top hat - subtracts slowly varying background
calculated as lower Lipschitz envelope from the image.

Preprocessing example: [Image of capillaries in
brain](https://imagej.net/_images/2/2e/Capillaries_brain.zip)

  - {% include bc content='Plugins | Biomat | Stack Linear Contrast'%}
    with parameters (multiplyers) "first"= 1.0 and "last"= 3.0
  - {% include bc content='Process | Filters | Gaussian blur 3D'%} with
    "sigma"= 1 pixel
  - {% include bc content='Plugins | Biomat | Lipschitz 3D Filter'%}
    with parameter "slope"= 2 / pixel

## Plugins for detection of fibres in 3D image.

**Tensor Line 3D Filter** - enhances white fibers of uniform width
sparsely distributed on dark background.

Example: [Image of capillaries in adipose
tissue](https://imagej.net/_images/e/e8/Capillaries_adipose.zip).

  - {% include bc content='Plugins | Biomat | Tensor Line 3D Filter'%}
    with "sigma" set to 3 pixels
  - {% include bc content='Image | Adjust | Brightness/Contrast'%}
  - {% include bc content='Process | Filters | Gaussian blur 3D'%} with
    "sigma"= 1 pixel

**Vector Line 3D Filter** - enhances white fibers of varying thickness.
Crossection of the fibers need not be circular. Parameter "sigma" in
pixels corresponds to the largest diameter.

Example: [Image of capillaries in embryonic
heart](https://imagej.net/_images/e/e9/Capillaries_heart.zip).

  - {% include bc content='Plugins | Biomat | Vector Line 3D Filter'%}
    with parameters "sigma"= 4 pixels, "scale number"= 2

[Category:Plugins](Category:Plugins "wikilink")
[Category:Filtering](Category:Filtering "wikilink")
