---
autogenerated: true
title: Bleach Correction
breadcrumb: Bleach Correction
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Plugins
description: test description
---

The plugin was made available by  and Jens Rietdorf and the full
documentation is available [at EMBL's
site](http://cmci.embl.de/downloads/bleach_corrector).

This plugin contains three different methods for correcting the
intensity decay due to photobleaching. They all work with either 2D or
3D time series. In case of 3D time series, image properties should be
appropriately set. If you are not sure, check your image header by
\[Image → Properties\].

  - Simple Ratio Method:
      - Plugin version of [Jens Rietdorf's
        macro](http://www.embl.de/eamnet/html/bleach_correction.html),
        extended further with 3D time series
  - Exponential Fitting Method:
      - Similar to the [description on the T-functions
        page](T-functions#Correcting_for_bleaching "wikilink").
        Additionally, this plugin also works with 3D time series.
      - [MBF ImageJ](MBF_ImageJ "wikilink") suggests to use
        “Exponential” equation for fitting, whereas this plugin uses
        “Exponential with Offset”
  - Histogram Matching Method:
      - A brand-new method for bleach correction.
      - This algorithm first samples the histogram of initial frame, and
        for the successive frames, [histograms are
        matched](wikipedia:Histogram_matching "wikilink") to the first
        frame. This avoids the increase in noise in the latter part of
        the sequence which is a problem in the above two methods.
      - This method does much better restoration of bleaching sequence
        for segmentation but not appropriate for intensity
        quantification.
      - See the blog entry, [a bit more detail on this
        issue](http://cmci.embl.de/blogtng/2010-05-04/photobleaching_correction_3d_time_series)

[Category:Plugins](Category:Plugins "wikilink")
