---
autogenerated: true
title: Coding style
breadcrumb: Coding style
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Development
description: test description
---

We make a serious effort to keep the ImageJ codebase clean, consistent
and easy to read—which includes both the source code and the revision
history.

## Interface-driven design

ImageJ uses an [interface-driven
design](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa260635%28v=vs.60%29.aspx)
where possible. Public interfaces, enumerations and constants (i.e.,
`public static final` fields) form the basis of ImageJ's API contract
with downstream code. While we make an effort not to change the public
methods and fields of non-interfaces, they may require occasional
changes to improve the system.

## Versioning

ImageJ uses [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/). As of this
writing, the project is still in beta, so the API is not finalized yet.
But once we make the final 2.0.0 release, future versions will be fully
compliant. See the [Architecture](Architecture#Versioning "wikilink")
page for further details.

## Naming

We have tried to name classes with similar logic to how the Java
standard library does. We eschew the "I" prefix for interfaces, as well
as the "Impl" suffix for implementations. Instead, like the Java
standard library, we prefix abstract superclasses with "Abstract" and
canonical implementations with "Default"—for example, the `Display`
interface is implemented by an abstract superclass named
`AbstractDisplay` and extended by a concrete implementation named
`DefaultDisplay`.

## Cleverness

Because a large number of developers study the ImageJ codebase, and it
provides many examples of use, we try to provide [easy to understand,
maintainable
code](http://www.daedtech.com/writing-maintainable-code-demands-creativity).
We avoid "clever" or obfuscated solutions to problems, since such code
tends to be much harder to understand.

## SCM history

We try to follow best practices for maintaining a clean and organized
Git history:

  - We provide a permanent, stable master branch (i.e., no force
    pushes).
  - We try to write [thorough,
    informative](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) and
    [well-formatted](http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html)
    commit messages. As a rule of thumb: relevant information that
    cannot be deduced easily from the patch itself should be provided in
    the commit message's *body*, e.g. what other approaches were tried
    first and why they did not work, a motivating blurb why the patch is
    desirable, or links to discussions.
  - In general, we prefer merging to rebasing, so that individual
    commits continue to reflect what was actually the true development
    history (i.e., what was tested and working at the time). That said,
    we do use rebasing sometimes on topic branches to keep our commits
    well organized and easy to understand.
  - We use topic branches for large feature additions and complex code
    changes, and purge them promptly once merged to master. We prefer to
    make explicit merges (i.e. with `--no-ff`) to document the purpose
    of each merged branch.
  - To refine commits on topic branches, we use `git commit --fixup
    <commit>` extensively. Subsequent `git rebase --autosquash` will
    squash the fixup into the other commit.
  - In the case of unfinished work at the conclusion of a coding
    session, we commit it with the subject *WIP* and push to the topic
    branch. (Calling `git reset HEAD^` next time makes it easy to pick
    up the work from there.) Doing this reduces the chance of lost work,
    and makes it easier for other programmers to collaborate during
    development.
  - We avoid monster commits (with commit messages like "Many changes to
    several subsystems") in favor of well-separated, modular commits
    with one conceptual change at a time. Git's staging area feature
    makes this much easier (e.g., `git add -p`). Granular commits have
    many advantages; e.g., [`git`` 
     ``bisect`](Pinpoint_regressions_with_Git "wikilink") becomes much
    more useful for understanding mysterious bugs.

## Javadoc and comments

We try to write Javadoc as code is added, rather than earmarking it for
addition later. It is our intention to provide Javadoc for all public
types. At minimum, we add TODO comments for any pending Javadoc. Our
goal is for all Javadoc to render correctly as HTML (i.e., in web
browsers) rather than abusing whitespace formatting in source.

We also have several comment tokens we use in various situations:

  - Anywhere the code may be unintuitive or surprising, we add an
    ["NB"](wikipedia:Nota_bene "wikilink") comment that provides an
    explanation.
  - For code that is considered "dirty" or less than ideal, but
    necessary from a practical perspective, we add a
    ["HACK"](wikipedia:Kludge#In_computer_science "wikilink") comment
    explaining it.
  - For code (or lack thereof) that is considered wrong or broken, and
    in need of repair, we add a "FIXME" comment with the relevant
    developer's initials, to serve as a reminder to address it as soon
    as time allows.
  - When additional work is needed somewhere, but not urgently, we add a
    "TODO" comment marking it.
  - For temporary code intended to be removed as soon as possible, we
    label it with a "TEMP" token.

## Eclipse code style profiles

We provide [Eclipse configuration files in the source
repository](https://github.com/imagej/imagej/tree/master/config) that
define our rules for code structure and formatting. **NB** when
downloading an `.epf` file from the repository, don't click *Save link
as...*, rather create a file `my-file-name.epf`, and then copy-paste the
contents of the file. To do this, click on `eclipse-preferences.epf` and
then the *Raw* button.

You can import them to your system using  and selecting the
`eclipse-preferences.epf` file. Then, in Eclipse preferences, navigate
to  and select "ImageJ" for the active profile. You can then format your
source code by right-clicking your source file(s) and choosing  from the
context menu. As of this writing, these rules are not automatically
applied by CI, but we make an effort to apply them to the codebase
occasionally by hand.

## Ordering of code blocks

For consistency, we prefer the following order for code blocks within a
class:

1.  Public constants (i.e., `public static final`).
2.  Non-public constants.
3.  Static fields.
4.  Static initializer, if needed.
5.  Instance fields.
6.  Constructors.
7.  New public methods for that specific class.
8.  Public method overrides of the class's superclass(es).
9.  Public method implementations of the class's implemented
    interface(s), in the same order they appear in the interface(s).
10. Public, static methods (labeled "-- Utility methods --").
11. Protected event handler methods (labeled "-- Event handlers --").
12. Any other protected methods (labeled "-- Internal methods --").
13. Private methods (labeled "-- Helper methods --").
14. Deprecated methods (labeled " -- Deprecated methods --").
15. Inner types (labeled "-- Helper classes --").

We also try to label each section of code separately; i.e., each class's
and interface's methods are labeled and grouped separately.

Even though modern IDEs provide a lot of functionality for understanding
where methods and variables come from, we still believe this ordering
makes it easier to find what you are looking for in code.

## Private over protected fields and methods

We prefer use of private fields and methods over protected ones, where
possible. While non-private fields can be a convenient construct for
classes intended to be subclassed, there are several disadvantages to
using them:

1.  Protected fields provide an API contract to subclasses, which
    especially for reusable libraries must be carefully considered, just
    as you would public API. With too many protected fields, you can
    find yourself locked into your current internal design, with
    refactoring difficult or impossible.
2.  You cannot exercise any restrictions or control over the usage of
    the protected fields. Conversely, providing getters and setters for
    private fields offers the ability to define in code any restrictions
    you need on those fields.
3.  Relatedly, there is no mechanism in Java, even using a bytecode
    library such as Javassist, to add "seams" that inject or modify
    behavior when that field is read or written. For example, you could
    not later add a notification system for listeners that care about
    when the value of that field changes. In fact, you cannot detect at
    all when a field has changed, for the purposes of e.g.
    synchronization. We encountered this specific problem with the
    legacy layer to ImageJ1, since ImageJ1 has quite a few non-private
    fields: when unknown third-party code changes an ImageJ1 field which
    stores some portion of the ImageJ1 program state, we cannot update
    the corresponding ImageJ2 state to match. We still have essentially
    no solution to this dilemma (the best we have come up with so far is
    polling, which is complex and error prone).
4.  One nice usage of non-private fields is for "struct"-style classes,
    such as `java.awt.Rectangle`, with its `x`, `y`, `width` and
    `height` fields. If all you are looking for is a "dumb" data
    structure class consisting of collections of primitives and object
    references, it can suffice, but given the points above, it is almost
    always superior to use private fields with getters and setters, even
    in classes fully intended to be subclassed.

More observations on this issue can be found at [this post on
StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/a/3631338).

All of that said, there are times when use of the `protected` modifier
is appropriate, so you will certainly see it in a few places in the
ImageJ codebase. In particular, we use `protected` for event handler
methods, both to avoid unused method warnings in Eclipse, as well as to
make it easier for subclasses to override the event handling behavior.

## See also

[Eclipse code style profiles and
IntelliJ](Eclipse_code_style_profiles_and_IntelliJ "wikilink")

[Category:Development](Category:Development "wikilink")
