---
autogenerated: true
title: Compatibility
breadcrumb: Compatibility
layout: page
author: test author
categories: 
description: test description
---

Backward compatibility is one of ImageJ's most important goals. It must
remain possible to use existing plugins and macros with new versions of
[ImageJ](ImageJ "wikilink").

## ImageJ Legacy

The [ImageJ2](ImageJ2 "wikilink") project is a complete redesign of
ImageJ, with no dependency on [ImageJ 1.x](ImageJ_1.x "wikilink").
However, to facilitate backwards compatibility, there is an **ImageJ
Legacy** component (source ) which provides extensions for ImageJ2 and
ImageJ1 to operate in harmony.

The ImageJ legacy layer provides the following extensions:

  - It makes ImageJ 1.x **usable [headless](headless "wikilink")** from
    the command line.
  - It wraps the **ImageJ 1.x UI as a [SciJava](SciJava "wikilink") user
    interface**.
  - It **translates between ImageJ1 and ImageJ2 data structures** on
    demand.

ImageJ2 currently uses the ImageJ 1.x user interface by default, since
many users need to retain access to ImageJ1 plugins.

### The ImageJ legacy UI

The legacy layer converts ImageJ1 into a SciJava-compatible user
interface by implementing the  interface via the  class.

However, things are complicated by the fact that ImageJ1 was not
designed with such requirements in mind. The legacy layer uses a
bytecode manipulation library called [Javassist](Javassist "wikilink")
to rewrite portions of ImageJ1 at runtime, in order to facilitate
integration and extension. See the  project for details.

### Translation of data structures

Each  has a linked , kept in sync by the . Whenever the need arises, the
legacy layer syncs the linked data objects. In order to maintain
reasonable performance, every opportunity is taken to avoid data
translation by making data changes in place, and only on demand (lazily,
with caching). The legacy layer reuses data by reference when
feasible—in particular, when image planes are stored in primitive
arrays—but in some cases the data must be copied (e.g., for ROIs).

Currently, automatic synchronization is disabled as it has negative
performance implications. The planned solution to the performance
problems is to , instead of relying on up-front pixel-wise translation.

In the mean time, full synchronization can be forced by setting a
`imagej.legacy.sync` [system
property](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/environment/sysprop.html).
This can be done in a running ImageJ instance, for example by running
the following as a [BeanShell script](BeanShell_Scripting "wikilink"):

``` java
System.setProperty("imagej.legacy.sync", "true");
```

## Updating ImageJ commands to the new paradigm

The eventual goal is to migrate all core ImageJ1 plugins to the ImageJ2
paradigm. Many ImageJ1 plugins have been already been updated in this
fashion; see the  and  repositories in particular.

## See also

  - The [ImageJDev
    talk](http://conference.imagej.net/2010/curtis-rueden/2010-10-27-ImageJDev.pdf)
    from the ImageJ 2010 Conference, for a historical perspective on how
    this approach to compatibility evolved over time.
