---
autogenerated: true
title: GitHub
breadcrumb: GitHub
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Development,Git
description: test description
---

{% include develop-menu content='tools' %} In the
[ImageJ](ImageJ "wikilink") and related [SciJava](SciJava "wikilink")
projects, we make extensive use of [GitHub](https://github.com/), a web
site that hosts [open source](open_source "wikilink") projects for free.

Here are a few tips how to interact via GitHub more effectively:

# Referring to source code

GitHub offers really powerful ways to refer to specific lines of code.
And not only that, it also offers powerful ways to find those specific
lines of code to begin with.

## Finding a file – quickly

After pointing the web browser to a specific repository, typing the {%
include key content='T' %}

`key will let you type out parts of the file name and hit`

{% include key content='Enter' %}

`when the file in question is at the top of the list (you can also navigate the list using the cursor keys).`

## Linking to specific lines

Hitting the {% include key content='L' %}

`key lets you jump to a specific line (and modifies the URL which you can then send around to refer to that line).`

After one line is selected already, you can select a line *range* by {%
include key content='Shift' %} -clicking on the line number of the other
end of the line range.

## Permalinks

After you found the link for the file in question, it most likely refers
to the current version of the file.

However, once development advances, the file's contents might change in
the meantime, or the file might even go away\! To provide a link to a
specific revision of the file, just hit the {% include key content='Y'
%}

`key to modify the URL to a permanent link (it will then reference the exact commit, instead of a branch).`

## Ignore whitespace changes in diffs

Sometimes, a commit will mix whitespace changes with other changes,
making the functional changes more difficult to isolate. Fortunately,
there is an easy workaround:

  - On the command-line, Git [understands the `-w`
    flag](https://github.com/git/git/blob/v2.1.3/Documentation/diff-options.txt#L466-L470)
    to ignore whitespace changes.
  - GitHub provides the same functionality, too: just append `?w=1` to
    the URL (or `&w=1` if there are already GET parameters).

# Editing files

If you want to modify some file's contents and you are certain that the
changes do not need to be tested locally, you can hit the `Edit` button
on the upper right corner after navigating to the file in question (in
case you don't have *Push* permission on the repository in question,
this will *fork* the project at the same time). This will let you edit
the file online and commit the changes after providing a commit message
(you should still try to write a [meaningful commit
message](Coding_style#SCM_history "wikilink"), of course).

# Working with Pull Requests

Pull Requests are a really neat way to work together. The idea is that
Git makes it very easy and efficient to clone a project's entire
revision history, develop a bit, and then offer the improvements in a
manner that is easy for the original project's developers to merge.

## Common workflow

Let's assume that you want to provide a fix for a vexing bug in one of
your favorite [Fiji](Fiji "wikilink") plugins. The first thing is to
*fork* it – meaning to copy the entire revision history into your
personal GitHub space – unless you have done so already. Then you clone
that onto your computer (again, unless you have done so already). Make
your changes, commit them, push them and then make a Pull Request. See
the excellent page [How to contribute to an existing plugin or
library](How_to_contribute_to_an_existing_plugin_or_library "wikilink")
for a detailed walk-through.

## Testing Pull Requests before merging them

GitHub makes it very, very easy to merge Pull Requests simply by hitting
a button. Of course you should review the changes before you do so:
remember that the quality of open-source software is high only because
many developers throw their cumulative expertise together to make
something that is better than each individual developer could have
developed on their own.

You might even want to test the code locally before merging. This is
really easy because GitHub provides not only the test whether a Pull
Request can be merged cleanly, but it also offers the revision in the
form of the `refs/pull/`<ID>`/merge` pseudo branches.

Please note that those pseudo branches (which are called *refs* in Git
Speak) are not fetched or cloned automatically, they have to be fetch
*explicitly*.

Example: let's assume for a moment that you want to test the [Pull
Request number \#6 of the SPIM Registration
plugin](https://github.com/fiji/SPIM_Registration/pull/6). You can fetch
and check out the pseudo-branch with the tentative merge result thusly:

``` bash
git fetch origin refs/pull/6/merge
git checkout FETCH_HEAD
```

Please note that

  - `FETCH_HEAD` is overwritten with every call to `git fetch`
  - `FETCH_HEAD` does not really refer to a branch, hence you will end
    up on an unnamed branch that is *not* updated when fetching
  - after testing, you should switch back to, say, *master* using `git
    checkout master`
  - once the Pull Request is merged, the pseudo-branch will reflect the
    final merge result, not a tentative one.

[Category:Development](Category:Development "wikilink")
[Category:Git](Category:Git "wikilink")
