---
autogenerated: true
title: GPL
breadcrumb: GPL
layout: page
author: test author
categories: 
description: test description
---

\_\_NOTOC\_\_ {% capture includecontent %} For a summary of
[SciJava](SciJava "wikilink") licensing, see the
[Licensing](Licensing "wikilink") page. {% endcapture %}

{% include info-box content=includecontent %}

%Replace% LicensesMenu %Replace% The **GNU General Public License** is a
free, **[copyleft](wikipedia:Copyleft "wikilink")** [open
source](open_source "wikilink") license for software and other kinds of
works. This is in contrast to **permissive** licenses like
[BSD](BSD "wikilink"), which impose minimal restrictions on the
redistribution of covered software. The GPL ensures that granted
freedoms are preserved whenever the work is distributed, even when the
work is changed or added to.

See the [Wikipedia article on the
GPL](wikipedia:GNU_General_Public_License "wikilink") for more
information.

{% capture includecontent %} name = GNU General Public License v3 |
shortname = GPLv3 | description = Version 3 of the GPL is the latest
version, written in 2007. It is the recommended version of the GPL to
use for new projects. | url = http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html |
choosealicense = gpl-3.0 | osswatch = gplv3 | osi = gpl-license

{% endcapture %}

{% include license content=includecontent %}

{% capture includecontent %} name = GNU General Public License v2 |
shortname = GPLv2 | description = Version 2 of the GPL is an older
version from 1991, which lacks some language relating to patents, as
well as prevention of [Tivoization](wikipedia:Tivoization "wikilink").
It is recommended to use GPLv3 instead if possible. | url =
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html | choosealicense = gpl-2.0 |
osswatch = gpl

{% endcapture %}

{% include license content=includecontent %}
