---
autogenerated: true
title: IDEs
breadcrumb: IDEs
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Development,IDEs
description: test description
---

{% include sidebox-right content='1=

<center>

If you are new to programming, and wondering which IDE to try first:  
many [ImageJ](ImageJ "wikilink") and [Fiji](Fiji "wikilink") developers
use [Eclipse](Eclipse "wikilink") and the [command
line](command_line "wikilink").

</center>

' %} {% include develop-menu content='tools' %}An [integrated
development
environment](wikipedia:Integrated_development_environment "wikilink")
(IDE) is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities
to computer programmers for software development. An IDE normally
consists of a source code editor, build automation tools and a debugger.
Most modern IDEs offer intelligent code completion features.

[ImageJ](ImageJ "wikilink") can be developed using any IDE which
supports [Maven](Maven "wikilink"), which includes:

<center>

{% include ides %}

</center>

## Why use an IDE?

There are many advantages of using an IDE for software development:

1.  It is easy to access documentation about classes (i.e.
    [javadoc](javadoc "wikilink")): just point your cursor over the name
    of the class, or press the keyboard shortcut (e.g., in Eclipse: {%
    include key content='Shift|F2' %}).
2.  You can use code completion: just type the start of the class name,
    variable, method, etc you want to use and hit the keyboard shortcut
    (e.g., in Eclipse: {% include key content='Ctrl|Space' %}).
3.  Compile errors are listed in a concise list; double-clicking on a
    line in that list will move the cursor to the problem.
4.  You can [debug your program
    interactively](Debugging_Exercises "wikilink"): just open the main
    class (i.e. a class having a `public static void main(String[]
    args)` method) and launch it in debug mode. E.g., in Eclipse: go to
    {% include bc content='Run|Debug As|Java Application'%}). This will
    switch to a different window layout (the *Debug perspective*) which
    offers you a range of views that are useful for debugging such as:
    local variables, thread stack traces, etc. You can interrupt the
    program at any time by clicking on the *pause* symbol and inspect
    the current state, single-step through the code and even to a
    limited amount replace code on-the-fly.
5.  The most important version control systems can be accessed easily
    through the IDE's GUI.
6.  There are many awesome keyboard shortcuts, especially effective to
    quickly explore large projects. (see e.g. [keyboard shortcuts for
    Eclipse](Eclipse#Keyboard_shortcuts "wikilink")).
7.  They can be enhanced with plugins. E.g., for Eclipse, the [Vrapper
    plugin](http://vrapper.sourceforge.net/) adds a vim-like input
    scheme.

The main disadvantage of modern IDEs is that they are quite large and
require a lot of resources—RAM and screen size in particular.

[Category:Development](Category:Development "wikilink")
[Category:IDEs](Category:IDEs "wikilink")
