---
autogenerated: true
title: Pinpoint regressions with Git
breadcrumb: Pinpoint regressions with Git
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Git
description: test description
---

# How to bisect with Git

## How to find which commit introduced a regression

So you found a regression? I.e. you know that the version worked
perfectly that you had yesterday of, say, the [ImageJ
Ops](ImageJ_Ops "wikilink") library, but today it crashes?

Git-bisect to the rescue\!

``` bash
git bisect start
git bisect bad HEAD
git bisect good HEAD@{yesterday}
```

This will start the bisection process, i.e. it will try to find a
revision that is as much "in the middle" between the bad commit(s) and
the good commit(s) (you will mark more and more commits as good or bad
in the process, and by inference, the ancestors of good commits will be
considered good, and the offspring of bad commits will be considered
bad, too), and let you test that.

In our case, let's just run the unit tests:

``` bash
mvn clean test
```

If the test is undecided (e.g.: it does not compile, so you do not know
if the unit test in question passes), mark it with

``` bash
git bisect skip
```

otherwise, mark it as "bad" or "good".

Sooner or later (usually rather sooner), Git will tell you which commit
is the culprit. You can look at the corresponding patch with

``` bash
git show <commit name>
```

where the commit name is that 40-digit hex string Git told you was the
first bad commit. Usually you end the bisection process then and there:

``` bash
git bisect reset
```

This will bring you back to the revision and branch you were on before
starting the bisection.

## How to forward port a fix

If there is an obvious flaw in the patch, just try to patch it. You have
to move to the first bad revision first:

``` bash
git checkout <commit name>
```

(This will warn you that you are not on any branch, but that is okay.)
Then just apply the fix you have in mind, and commit (after making sure
that it worked, of course ;-). Now, tag it with a temporary label:

``` bash
git tag my-fix
```

and go back to the branch you came from:

``` bash
git checkout master
```

If you are unsure which branch you came from, look at the
[reflog](Git_reflogs "wikilink") first.

Now you can cherry-pick (or forward-port) your patch:

``` bash
git cherry-pick my-fix
```

If there are conflicts, resolve them and commit ("git commit fiji.cxx").

After that, you can get rid of the now-obsolete tag:

``` bash
git tag -d my-fix
```

Note: instead of using a temporary tag, you can use the
[reflog](Git_reflogs "wikilink") of the HEAD ref (`git cherry-pick
HEAD@{1}`), but if you are not familiar with the concept, tags are
probably easier to handle.

# See also

  - [Binary search
    tutorial](http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Debugging-with-Git#Binary-Search)
    in the Git book

[Category:Git](Category:Git "wikilink")
