---
autogenerated: true
title: Thresholding
breadcrumb: Thresholding
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Techniques
description: test description
---

{% include toc%}[Thresholding](wikipedia:Thresholding_\(image_processing\) "wikilink") is a technique for dividing an image into two (or more) classes of pixels, which are typically called "foreground" and "background."

## Global thresholding

Global thresholding works by choosing a value cutoff, such that every pixel less than that value is considered one class, while every pixel greater than that value is considered the other class.

[ImageJ](ImageJ "wikilink") provides several built-in methods for automatically computing a global threshold. For details, see:

  - Documentation for the \[https://imagej.net/docs/guide/146-28.html#sub:Threshold...%5BT%5D Threshold...\] command.
  - The [Auto Threshold](Auto_Threshold "wikilink") plugin page

## Local thresholding

Local thresholding techniques adapt the threshold value on each pixel to the local image characteristics.

## ImageJ Ops

The [ImageJ Ops](ImageJ_Ops "wikilink") project provides algorithms for both global and local thresholding.

## FAQ

### How do I know whether my threshold is correct?

In short, you can't. It will always be, to some extent, in the eye of the user/observer/scientist and will also be impacted by empirically collected knowledge. The basic problem of deciding if a threshold (or in general an extraction method) is "good" needs a "ground truth". But such a ground truth is not naturally existing and is always created in one or the other way by a human. So, describing which method you use—and/or showing a comparison with other methods—is probably the best you can do to enable a statement on the quality of the extraction.

For more detailed information on thresholding and image segmentation basics and some quality evaluation see the [Principles](https://imagej.net/Principles#Considerations_during_image_segmentation_.28binarization.29) page.

[Category:Techniques](Category:Techniques "wikilink")
