---
autogenerated: true
title: 3D Viewer › 4D Viewer
layout: page
categories: 
description: test description
---

(Return to the [Developer Documentation](/plugins/3d-viewer/developer-documentation) page)  
(Return to the main [3D\_Viewer](/plugins/3d-viewer) page)

How to visualize 4D data
------------------------

You can download example source code for this HowTo [here](/plugins/3d-viewer/example-code).

Sometimes, 3D data are recorded over time, and it is desirable to visualize those data, i.e. show it in a time line, being able to animate it, etc. This is possible with the viewer. The following lines of code show how to do it programmatically:

    // Open a hyperstack
    ImagePlus imp = IJ.openImage(
          Prefs.getImagesURL() + "Spindly-GFP.zip");

    // Create a universe and show it
    Image3DUniverse univ = new Image3DUniverse();
    univ.show();

    // load the stack in the viewer
    univ.addVoltex(imp);

    // get the Timeline object
    Timeline tl = univ.getTimeline();

    // start playback
    tl.play();

    // wait a bit
    try {
            Thread.sleep(5000);
    } catch(InterruptedException e) {}


    // Stop animation
    tl.pause();

The 3D viewer automatically recognizes hyperstacks and shows a control panel on demand, providing buttons for playback, pause, etc.

`Image3DUniverse` allows to retrieve a `Timeline` object, which allows to call the corresponding functions programmatically.

### Important methods of Viewer4D

Next to `play()` and `pause()`, the `Timeline` class provides several methods for stepping through the time frames of the 4D data:

    /** Set bounce-back or repeat */
    public void setBounceBack(boolean bounce);
    public boolean getBounceBack();

    /** Speed up the animation. */
    public void faster();

    /** Slows the animation down. */
    public void slower();

    /** Record the whole timeline */
    public ImagePlus record();

    /** Start animation.  */
    public synchronized void play();

    /** Stop/pause animation */
    public synchronized void pause();

    /** Display next timepoint. */
    public void next();

    /** Display previous timepoint. */
    public void previous();

    /** Display first timepoint. */
    public void first();

    /** Display last timepoint. */
    public void last();
