---
autogenerated: true
title: 3D Viewer › Content Structure
---

(Return to the [Developer Documentation](/plugins/3d-viewer/developer-documentation) page)  
(Return to the main [3D\_Viewer](/plugins/3d-viewer) page)

## The relation between Content and Universe

You can download example source code for this HowTo [here](/plugins/3d-viewer/example-code).

The following figure shows a simplified class diagram which shows the class hierarchy and relationship of the most important classes for users ofthe API: {% include thumbnail src='/media/3dviewer-class-diagram.png' title='Simplified class diagram showing the core classes of the 3D Viewer.'%}

### The class hierarchy of the universe classes

There exist three classes which together provide the functionality of the universe:

-   <b>`DefaultUniverse`</b> initializes the scene graph. It provides methods for retrieving the window in which the universe is shown, and the root `BranchGroup` of the Java3D scene graph, under which all objects are placed.
-   <b>`DefaultAnimatableUniverse`</b> extends `DefaultUniverse`. It provides functionality for animation and recording.
-   <b>`Image3DUniverse`</b> in turn extends `DefaultAnimatableUniverse`. It provides methods for adding, deleting and selecting Contents.

### The relationship between `Content` and `Image3DUniverse`

`Image3DUniverse` can hold several `Content`s. This are stored in a hash map, identified by their name. This requires that the name of a `Content` is unique.

The `Content` itself holds its attributes like color, transparency etc, but also a local transformation and a reference to the `ContentNode`.

### The relationship between `Content` and `ContentNode`

`ContentNode` is the actual class which represents a 3D object. It is an abstract class, which is among others subclassed by `VoltexGroup` (representing a volume rendering) and `MeshGroup` (representing an isosurface). A `Content` has exactly one reference to a `ContentNode` at a time.

When functionality is required which is common to all `ContentNode`s, is is often sufficient to work with `Content` itself. For special functionality of a certain type of `Content`, however, it is most probably required to work with the `ContentNode`.

As an example think of volume editing. Functionality about that makes only sense in the context of volume renderings, and therefore, the corresponding methods are located in `VoltexGroup`.

### The message flow between Content and ContentNode

When e.g. `Content.setColor()` is called, it first checks if the specified color is different from the existing color. If it is, it sets the current color (which is a field of `Content`) and calls the `colorUpdated()` method which is defined in the `ContentNode` interface.
